# SwEnt M1 Team Grading Report

This first milestone M1 serves as a checkpoint at which we provide you with formal feedback on how you are coming together as a team, organizing yourselves, adopting good software engineering practices, and making progress toward delivering incremental value to your users. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The goal of our evaluation is not to assess whether you are top-tier Android developers or software testers, this will be assessed in earnest in subsequent milestones, once you've had the opportunity to gain experience and acquire the relevant skills. You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M1 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M1.md) document.


## Blue Belt

You qualified for a Blue Belt 🥋🔵 and got a final grade of 5.21/6 for M1. Excellent work! You're demonstrating advanced skills. 

We looked at several aspects, grouped into five categories. Here is the breakdown of the points you earned:

| Metric                          | **Points Earned**              | **Weight** | **Feedback**                              |
|---------------------------------|--------------------------------|------------|-------------------------------------------|
| **Implementation (APK, CI, tests)** | 5.08 out of 6 | 40%        | [See Details](#implementation-apk-ci-tests) |
| **Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog** | 5.25 out of 6      | 20%        | [See Details](#sprint-backlog--product-backlog) |
| **Figma**                       | 6 out of 6       | 15%        | [See Details](#figma)                     |
| **Architecture**                | 5 out of 6 | 15%       | [See Details](#architecture)               |
| **Scrum process documents**     | 4.75 out of 6       | 10%        | [See Details](#scrum-process-documents)    |
| **Final Grade**                 | **5.21 out of 6**    |            |                                           |


In addition to the feedback you received from the coaches during the Sprints, you will find some extra feedback below.

## Implementation (APK, CI, tests)

We looked at whether your APK is functional and reliable. We also assessed your repo setup, whether it is clearly organized and if there is a CI running Sonar Cloud and running tests including at least one meaningful end-to-end test.

APK is highly reliable and user experience is seemless.
- Sonar is correctly integrated in the repo
- The tests are run by the CI
- There is at least one meaningful end-to-end test
- The line coverage on M1 code is 91,4

For this part, you received 5.08 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog

We assessed the structure and clarity of your Sprint and Product Backlogs and how you used them.
We looked at whether your tasks are well defined, appropriately sized, and aligned with user stories; whether the Product Backlog is well organized and value-driven; and whether the Sprint Backlog is continuously updated and demonstrates good planning and prioritization.

Tasks for the next sprint are assigned and have a time estimate, well done! You could improve even further by adding more detailed descriptions.

Product backlog contains various user stories that get moved throught the scrum board as they are implemented. However, be careful some of the User stories in the product backlog are written as for the Sprint 1 but were not moved to the Done in Sprint 1 column.

For this part, you received 5.25 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Figma

We evaluated your Figma, whether it is up-to-date with the app and how it is used as a communication, planning and design tool to accelerate the implementation of good UI.

The Figma is really good, it shows some screens that are not yet implemented and the Mockup version is really complete and helps really to understand how the application should work. Keep up the good work!

For this part, you received 6 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Architecture

We reviewed your project’s architecture diagram, whether it is up-to-date with the app and if it follows clean design principles. We also looked at how it is used to discuss and document the architecture of the app as the app evolves.

The architecture diagram is clear and express well the links between the different components of the application. It could gain from having a more detailed Domain Layer to express better the link between the various components.

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Scrum Process Documents

We reviewed your Scrum process documentation, including Sprint Retrospectives and Team Standup. We assessed whether they documented the process in detail, and how they were used to prepare the meetings. We also looked at your ability to lead structured and effective meetings, with everyone's participation.

The Scrum document (stand up meeting and team retrospective) are filled every sprint. The team even documents its 2 stand up meeting each week, however it seems that they were filled the same day and not at each of the meetings. You do not have to document both meetings, only one is requested so please fill it really during the stand up meeting as it should be used as a tool and not be viewed as a contraint. For the team retrospective, it would be interesting if there was a bit more relfection on it. You can start filling it prior to the meetings with your coaches, this way you will have more time to reflect on the process and identify potential improvements.

The planning for next sprint was already done, which is a good point. The team could improve even further by starting to take more the lead during the meetings, and encourage more discussion about the direction of the application and other related things.

For this part, you received 4.75 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Summary

Your team grade for milestone M1 is 5.21. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!



